Hello and welcome to another tutorial.
We're going to continue our discussion on how to work with the platform default toolchain.
And previously we looked at the macros default toolchain.
We said that it's an apple clang, it's a proprietary compiler that Apple company Apple provides and
then all the aliases on the terminal, which is C++ or C++ or Clang or GCC, they all point to the same
being directory, which is basically the apple clang and then that's the C++ compiler, right?
And then next we're going to look at the Linux Ubuntu, which is my favorite Linux distro.
It's very easy to work with and it has a very nice terminal and the platform toolchain, obviously Linux
is open source and you expect that the tool chains that come with it are also open source and I believe
open to by default comes with a toolchain which is its default toolchain, which is the GCC new compiler
collection.
Right.
And it's open source.
You can install it, customize it and the easy way is to install it.
I believe ubuntu comes by default with GCC the new compiler collection.
If it doesn't you have to install the build essentials for Linux.
And so in order to basically install the command line tools in terminal or basically install GCC, you
first update your application repository, cash and then sudo apt install build essentials.
You have to run it in the super superuser mode.
So you need to have superuser privileges.
If you're not familiar with Linux terminal, basically whenever you run a sudo command, you have to
provide administrative password.
So these are more like administrative privileges.
You have to have that.
And then apt is the command line executable binary application in Linux that manages your basically
application cache from the remote repositories.
And again, just like Mac OS that has an online app store, Linux also has repositories that the operating
system can connect to them and download the applications and then install them on your operating system,
on your computer.
And this app is basically the application that manages that install is a command line argument for this
app.
And then you tell it which what you want to install and build essentials.
Now if you want to learn more about build essentials, you can go to to this basically internet address
it's FOSS dot com build essentials or and that gives you a lot of information about what these build
essentials are and how to install them.
It's very easy.
As you can see, I have it here.
You just say sudo apt install build hyphen essential.
Right.
So check if build essentials install and the first time you run it.
And the way the app works, it always updates your repository list.
First the packages and then reading a state information bill essentially is already the newest version.
And basically when you run this install command, if you haven't install it, if your Linux distribution
doesn't come with this build essentials, then APT goes and grabs the files and download them and install
them on your computer if basically you've already installed them apt checks if you have the latest version.
If not, it tries to update your version.
Mine says Bill essentially is already the newest version.
The following packages were automatically in and no longer requests, so it also tells you which packages
are deprecated or they don't have any other application that rely on them use to to apt or to remove
to remove them.
So you can tell apt application with the command line argument or to remove and apt goes through all
the caches and then of your application and see which ones don't have any other applications, rely
on them and then you can delete them.
All right.
And then after you do this and install this bill, essentially you can check whether you have GKE or
C++ arguments there.
Right.
So which GCSE and it says its user being GCSE.
And which means it's the terminal is able to locate the compiler, the C compiler, GCSE, if you type
C++, it's a C++ compiler.
So you have to check that and then you can also type JK hyphen, hyphen version.
So first of all, you should be able to check whether the terminal can locate the GCSE executable and
it's usually in the user being GCSE and the the files or the references in the user B are usually basically
symbolic references or shortcuts to the actual where the actual file result resides.
I mean, to the operating system or terminal, there is no really difference between symbolic reference
and actual executable.
And then you can also check which version of the GCC you are using.
You just say GCSE hyphen, hyphen version.
GCSE is compiling C source files by default.
C++ is compiling C++ or CP source files by default.
And again, these days we don't really care that much about C, we only care about modern C++.
So I'm going to head to Linux and quickly show you this.
So here's my Linux.
Let me just log in.
I'm running it in a virtual machine open to it's very easy and here's my terminal and as you can see,
just like Mac OS, I'm very fond of this fish application which stands for friendly Interactive Shell.
You can if you don't know how to install it, you just can say probably sudo apt install fish for example
that should be easily installed.
And I've if you right now I'm in my home directory if you if I look at my bash.
RC You see that at the end of my bash?
RC I have this command to run the fish.
So whenever you launch the terminal it executes or loads the batch profile file.
And then in the bash profile you can source your bash.
RC And in the bash RC.
I usually want at the end to define all the global environment variables, and eventually I want to
run the fish friendly, interactive shell on top of my original terminal.
So if you if you look at the bash profile, let's see if we have a bash profile file so we don't have
it.
So right now.
We're just loading the batch RC directly.
In my case I think it loads batch profile and then you can source special RC here.
I guess it just loads batch RC directly.
All right.
So we are there in my virtualbox linux ubuntu and then sudo apt basically install a build essential
and you want to run it in a superuser mode so that you do have administrative privileges because it
has to access the root directory.
So let's put the password and it says essentially is already the new version.
Zero Upgrades zero newly installed zero to remove 546 not upgraded.
So it says me that you've already installed it.
If you haven't installed, you just type these and the magically grabs it.
And then what we want to do, we want to check whether we have access to the compilers, which is the
build default toolchain for building applications.
Right.
You have to compile to the native binaries.
Native binaries depend on.
The operating system and then the CPU architecture instruction sets.
And when you run VirtualBox what you can do a virtual machine also basically you mimic the same CPU
architecture, right?
The processors that this sees is kind of like a virtual processor, but they have for example, my computer
has a 64 bit intel CPU.
So the virtual box also assumes that it has the same instruction set.
So I'm going to say that which GTC, it tells me it's in the user being GTC and in which G plus plus
it tells me it's in the user being C++.
And then I can say GTC, a hyphen hyphen version and it tells me that it's a basically it's available.
This is the version that comes with Ubuntu and then je plus plus hyphen hyphen version and it tells
me that this is a G plus plus compiler, etc..
Now the last thing that we want to do to make sure that all of the build tool chains are fully installed
and ready to go, for us to basically compile a job application to native binary is to just write a
simple C++ hello word and then try to compile it, make sure everything works fine.
So I'm going to seed in my desktop and then let's create a CPP file.
So we can say touch.
Touch is a command that just creates an empty file.
Hello, Dot CBP.
And as you can see, it's here on my desktop.
I'm going to open it with a probably text editor.
Let's see what we have.
We have this text editor here.
So I'm going to open a on my desktop.
I'm going to open up this Helloworld Dot.
CP Let's see if we can zoom in a little bit.
Uh, so let's write some, uh, the typical hello world.
So we're going to include basically i0a stream, all right.
And then we're going to say that in the main, we saw that right now my application is not going to
request any take any command line argument so you can leave it.
You don't need to pass the RC and arg v because we don't care about them.
And then we're going to say that stdc out hello world from a C++ application and then we push a backslash
n and then semicolon.
We don't need to type return zero.
That's fine.
So we save these and here we're going to clear and then say C++, hello dot cp and let's call the output
file name or the compiled file as my app and it tries to compile.
Let's see if and then there is no error.
All the compilation is successful and we have a native executable binary called my app and again similar
to macros, if you want to execute it and the application, you have to give the relative path or the
full path to this executable file in terminal.
Right now I'm in the same directory desktop so I say from current directory, execute my app and we
can pass basically command line arguments.
But it's they're going to be ignored because we're not capturing any RC or ARG v here.
So hello, you are.
And then it just runs the application, whatever is inside the main method and then it terminates and
it disregards any strings that come after the name of the application because we're not capturing any
ask or are we?
Right now we see we can do that if we say into RC and then char array, arg, v array, right?
And then we can go through them.
Just print the exactly like what we did in C++ in macros, just make sure that everything works fine.
Print command line arguments to the terminal again so we know that what we do is basically for int or
size t both works fine size t i equals zero is less an c plus plus.
We're going to say that std c out arg v at index i it's it returns a character or basically a string
and see out this overload insertion operator is overloaded so it knows how to handle the character and
then we're going to do a backslash n new line to the terminal right so save we have to obviously compile
again everything works fine and now we run our application and now we we know that in C++ in in for
the C++ application, the number of arguments are like you have the command line arguments and also
the name of the application relative or absolute path.
We saw that in MapQuest, the same story here in Linux.
So the first argument that the first argument or the first string in this string area is always the
name of the application, whatever exactly what you type here and then hello, you are.
So basically these are the command line arguments.
All right, so everything works fine.
Our toolchain is successful.
Now note that if you try to compile with GCC
try so it it basically what it does is that it now.
Basically what it does.
It now complains because DCC considers C SourceForge not C++.
So it says.
I don't know why this stdc out is these are undefined.
So because when you run GC it uses the header files that are associated with the basically C, not C++.
And in C you don't have any objects, any STD or any namespace.
But when you say G plus plus hello dot CP hyphen.
Oh try it works fine.
Right.
And if we now say try, it also works fine.
Now we only have one argument as the command line.
All right.
I hope you enjoy this lecture.
And basically, next, we're going to look at the windows and I quickly show you how to set up the default
tool change in Windows.
Now, window is a little bit more complicated because you have to go and download the it's not really
about the terminal.
You have to basically download the Microsoft Visual C compiler separately, install it now in whenever
you install something in Mac OS and Linux using the terminal, especially in Linux, they already basically
set up the path environment variable so that all these, for example, compilers are already available
on the terminal.
You don't need to write.
For example, the absolute path to those executable binary now in windows is not the case, so we have
to do some extra work to set it up.
So yeah.
So next we look at windows.